Add product feed doc (#1091)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/app-store/apps/products-feed.mdx

---
title: Products Feed
---

import { AppMetadata } from "/components/AppMetadata/AppMetadata.tsx";

<AppMetadata
  minSaleorVersion="3.10"
  githubUrl="https://github.com/saleor/apps/tree/main/apps/products-feed"
/>

## Overview

_Products Feed_ app allows to generation of an XML file with products and their details. The file can be used as a feed source for Google Merchant Center.

## Features

- Generate XML file with products and their details
- Allow to store feed file in S3 bucket
- Generating separate feeds for each channel
- Possibility to map Saleor categories to pre-defined Google categories
- Map Saleor attributes to Google attributes

## Limitations

- The app uses a serverless function to handle feed generation. It means that the app is limited by a serverless function maximum execution time, which might cause a timeout when the product catalogue is big.

## Permissions

The app requires `MANAGE_PRODUCTS` permission to listen to product events.

To save app configuration, staff users must have `MANAGE_PRODUCTS` permission.

## Configuration

### S3 bucket

> In case you want to send generated file to S3 bucket, you need to provide the following details:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you want to send the generated file to the S3 bucket, you need to provide the following details:
```

- `AWS Access Key ID`
- `AWS Secret`
- `AWS S3 Bucket Name`
- `AWS S3 Bucket Region`

> You can test the connection to S3 bucket by clicking `Test connection` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test the connection to the S3 bucket by clicking the `Test connection` button.
```

### Channels

> You can generate separate feed for each channel. To do that, you need to provide the following details:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can generate a separate feed for each channel. To do that, you need to provide the following details:
```

- `Storefront URL`
- `Storefront product URL`

> You can use `Handerbars` format to customize product URL. For example, you can use `{{ productSlug }}` to generate a product URL with slug.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `Handerbars` format to customize the product URL. For example, you can use `{{ productSlug }}` to generate a product URL with a slug.
```

> You can use the `Handerbars` format to customize the product URL. For example, you can use `{{ productSlug }}` to generate a product URL with a slug.
> 
> You can use variables like this:
> 
> ```
> {{ variant.product.slug }} - product `slug`
> {{ variant.id }} - product variant id
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the [`Handerbars`](https://handlebarsjs.com/) format to customize the product URL with context-aware templates.

You can use variables like this:

```
{{ variant.product.slug }} - product `slug`
{{ variant.id }} - product variant id
```
```

- added link to handlebars docs 
- the first example of using variables was contradicting the later one, so I removed it

#### Example:

> For this url `https://my-shop.com/p/{{ variant.product.slug}/{{ variant.id }}` will produce `https://my-shop.com/p/t-shirt/Xyp2asZ`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this url `https://my-shop.com/p/{{ variant.product.slug }}/{{ variant.id }}` will produce `https://my-shop.com/p/t-shirt/Xyp2asZ`
```

Missing bracket

### Item title

> 

Reviewer 2: Optional, but might be a good idea:
Let's add info box for Merchant documentation explaining how to modify the feed from their dashboard: https://shoppingsolutions.withgoogle.com/expertise/merchant-center-modify/

It's quite powerful tool and it might spare a few feature requests/issues in the future ;)

> You can use `Handerbars` format to customize the product title. For example, you can use `{{variant.product.name}} - {{variant.name}}` to generate product title.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `Handerbars` format to customize the product title. For example, you can use `{{variant.product.name}} - {{variant.name}}` to generate product title.
```

### Categories mapping

You can map Saleor categories to pre-defined Google categories, but this is optional.

> Google automatically assign a category to a product, but in some cases, Google allows to override it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google automatically assigns a category to a product, but in some cases, Google allows to override it.
```

> You can find more information [here](https://support.google.com/merchants/answer/6324436?hl=en)

Reviewer 2: Optional: I would also add information that the Google Category ID will be saved in the Category public metadata. It's quite cool because can be used later on for generating JSON-LD/open graph data on the storefront.

### Attributes mapping

Choose which product attributes should be used for the feed.

Supported attributes:

- `brand`
- `color`
- `material`
- `pattern`
- `size`
- `gtin`

## Testing

> - In the channel configuration section, select channel for which you want to generate a feed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the channel configuration section, select a channel for which you want to generate a feed
```

- Provide required URLs for storefront and product

> - Below in the same section, in `Test your feed` subsection click on button `Open feed in a new tab`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Below in the same section, in the `Test your feed` subsection click on the button `Open feed in a new tab`
```

> - New tab should open, wait a couple seconds for the generated feed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New tab should open, wait a couple of seconds for the generated feed
```
